GH-45691: [R][Packaging] Update R packaging checklist with latest process (#45692)
apache/arrow: r/PACKAGING.md

- [ ] Check [current CRAN check results](https://cran.rstudio.org/web/checks/check_results_arrow.html).
- [ ] Ensure the contents of the README are accurate and up to date.
- [ ] Run `urlchecker::url_check()` on the R directory at the release candidate.
  commit. Ignore any errors with badges as they will be removed in the CRAN release branch.
- [ ] [Polish NEWS](https://style.tidyverse.org/news.html#news-release) but do **not** update version numbers (this is done automatically later). You can find commits by, for example, `git log --oneline <sha of last release>..HEAD | grep "\[R\]"`
- [ ] Run preliminary reverse dependency checks using `archery docker run r-revdepcheck`.
- [ ] For major releases, prepare tweet thread highlighting new features.
- [ ] [Polish NEWS](https://style.tidyverse.org/news.html#news-release) but do **not** update version numbers (this is done automatically later). You can find commits by, for example, `git log --oneline <sha of last release>..HEAD | grep "\[R\]"`.
- [ ] For major releases, prepare content for social media highlighting new features.

Wait for the release candidate to be cut:
_Wait for the release candidate to be created._

> ## After release candidate has been cut

Reviewer: cut is the wording we usually use but I don't object to created, might be easier to understand for new contributors :)

Author: That was my thinking here.

> - [ ] Create a CRAN-release branch from the release candidate commit, name the new branch e.g. `maint-X.X.X-r` and push to upstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Create a CRAN-release branch from the release candidate commit, name the new branch `maint-X.Y.Z-r` and push to upstream.
```
The pattern isn't really optional, we should keep it consistent

> - [ ] Run `make build`. This copies Arrow C++ into tools/cpp, prunes some unnecessary components, and runs `R CMD build` to generate the source tarball. Because this will install the package, you will need to ensure that the version of Arrow C++ available to the configure script is the same as the version that is vendored into the R package (e.g., you may need to unset `ARROW_HOME`).

Reviewer: the long line is a bit harder  to read in source form but we are not keeping to any line length so :shrug:

- [ ] Run `urlchecker::url_check()` on the R directory.
- [ ] Create a PR entitled `WIP: [R] Verify CRAN release-X.X.X-rcX`. Add a comment `@github-actions crossbow submit --group r` to run all R crossbow jobs against the CRAN-specific release branch.
- [ ] Run `Rscript tools/update-checksums.R <libarrow version>` to download the checksums for the pre-compiled binaries from the ASF artifactory into the tools directory.
- [ ] Regenerate arrow_X.X.X.tar.gz (i.e., `make build`).

## Check Binary Arrow C++ Distributions Specific to the R Package

- [ ] Upload the .tar.gz to [win-builder](https://win-builder.r-project.org/upload.aspx) (r-devel only) and confirm with Jon (who will automatically receive an email about the results) that the check is clean.
- [ ] Upload the .tar.gz to [macOS Builder](https://mac.r-project.org/macbuilder/submit.html) and confirm that the check is clean.
- [ ] Check `install.packages("arrow_X.X.X.tar.gz")` on Ubuntu and ensure that the hosted binaries are used.
- [ ] `devtools::check_built("arrow_X.X.X.tar.gz")` locally one more time (for luck).

## Submit Package to CRAN

_This step must be done by the current package maintainer._

> - [ ] Upload arrow_X.X.X.tar.gz to the [CRAN submit page](https://xmpalantir.wu.ac.at/cransubmit/).

Reviewer: so weird that the form is just this page as an iframe on the cran page...

Author: Yeah, it doesn't exactly instill confidence.

- [ ] Confirm the submission email.

## Wait for CRAN to Accept the Submission

- [ ] CRAN has accepted the submission.
- [ ] Tag the tip of the CRAN-specific release branch with `r-universe-release`.
- [ ] Add a new line to the matrix in the [backwards compatability job](https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/main/dev/tasks/r/github.linux.arrow.version.back.compat.yml).

> - [ ] (patch releases only) Update the package version in `ci/scripts/PKGBUILD`, `dev/tasks/homebrew-formulae/autobrew/apache-arrow.rb`, `r/DESCRIPTION`, and `r/NEWS.md`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] (patch releases only) Update the package version in `ci/scripts/PKGBUILD`, `r/DESCRIPTION`, and `r/NEWS.md`.
```
